CONTRIBUTING.rst, before:

How to contribute
=================

**Reporting a bug?**

Check if the bug was already reported under `issues <https://github.com/igor-sb/bluprint/issues>`_. If you are not able to find an open issue addressing the problem, open a `new issue <https://github.com/igor-sb/bluprint/issues/new>`_.

**Did you write a patch that fixes a bug?**

* Fork the repo, make changes, then create a Pull Request with the patch.
* Ensure the PR description clearly describes the problem and a solution. Link the relevant issue if any.
* See code guidelines below.

**Do you intend to add a new feature or change an existing one?**

* Suggest your change as an `issue <https://github.com/igor-sb/bluprint/issues>`_.
* See code guidelines below.

Contributing code guidelines
----------------------------

1. Clone the repo.
2. Ensure you have a development environment setup. This includes correct versions of Python, PDM as well as R and it's relevant packages if you intend to change R project code. Run ``pdm install --dev`` to install all dependencies, including those in the development group in *pyproject.toml*.
3. After creating a new code, ensure it passes linting and static typing checks; run ``make lint``.
4. Add appropriate unit tests and ensure it passes all unit tests; run ``make test``.
5. If you make changes to the documentation, you can build it locally using ``make docs``, then open *docs/build/index.html* file in your browser.
6. If everything passes correctly, update the Bluprint version in *pyproject.toml*.
7. Push the changes to Github.
8. Open a PR.


Thank you for contributing!

Igor

Commit message:

PD-71-switch-to-uv (#17)
* pdm -> uv

* getting rid of pdm in favor of uv

* update unit tests

* update unit tests

* update readme

* fix readme

* update docs

* switch references from pdm to uv

* reformat contributing guidelines

* format readme

* fix links

* update docs

* update docs

* update docs

* update docs

* fix readme

* unit test update

* cleanup docs and add quarto support

* add option to delete examples

* report coverage only with src

* start adding test case for bluprint create without examples

* add progress bar, refactor code for init

* rerun unit tests

* use only src dir from coverage report

* refactor and fix linting

* rerun unit tests

* rerun unit tests

* refactor project validators

* add more unit tests

* update docs

* update tests

* dont copy r / examples instead of copying + deleting

* change arg from keep_examples to omit_examples and fix it

* fix linting

* switch from skip_dot_files to include_dot_files argument for clarity

* update tests

* remove useless file

* update docs

* refactor to using path instead of os

* update unit tests

* cleanup CI/CD actions

* fix workflows

* fix CI/CD

* fix CI/CD

* switch to checkout@v4

* add badges to readme

* fix readme text and badges

* update readme

* update docs

* remove nbstripout dependency, cleanup docs

CONTRIBUTING.rst, after:

How to contribute
=================

**Reporting a bug?**

Check if the bug was already reported under
`issues <https://github.com/igor-sb/bluprint/issues>`_. If you are not able to
find an open issue addressing the problem, open a
`new issue <https://github.com/igor-sb/bluprint/issues/new>`_.

**Did you write a patch that fixes a bug?**

* Fork the repo, make changes, then create a Pull Request with the patch.
* Ensure the PR description clearly describes the problem and a solution. Link
  the relevant issue if any.
* See code guidelines below.

**Do you intend to add a new feature or change an existing one?**

* Suggest your change as an `issue <https://github.com/igor-sb/bluprint/issues>`_.
* See code guidelines below.

Contributing code guidelines
----------------------------

1. Fork and clone the repo.
2. Ensure you have a development environment setup. This includes correct
   versions of Python, uv as well as R and it's relevant packages if you intend
   to change R project code. Run ``uv venv && uv sync`` to install all
   dependencies, including those in the development group in *pyproject.toml*.
3. After creating a new code, ensure it passes linting and static typing checks;
   run ``make lint``.
4. Add appropriate unit tests and ensure it passes all unit tests; run
   ``make test``. Add ``export JUPYTER_PLATFORM_DIRS=1`` to your *.bashrc* or
   *.zshrc* to silence a Jupyter deprecation warning.
5. If you make changes to the documentation, you can build it locally using
   ``make docs``, then open *docs/build/index.html* file in your browser.
6. If everything passes correctly, update the Bluprint version in
   *pyproject.toml*.
7. Push the changes to Github.
8. Open a PR from your forked repo.


Thank you for contributing!

Igor
