docs/source/getting_started.rst, before:

Getting started
===============

Python projects
---------------

Create a project template in a new directory *myproj* using:

.. code-block:: bash

    bluprint create myproj


.. note::

  Project names should start with a lowercase or uppercase letter, end with a
  lowercase or uppercase letter or a digit and may contain letters, digits or
  underscores between the first and last characters.

  Project names that contain upper case, will be converted to lowercase, except
  for the main project directory name.


This creates the following directory tree:

.. code-block:: none

  myproj
  ├── .venv                           # Project's Python virtual environment
  ├── conf                            # Yaml configuration files
  │   ├── config.yaml                 #   Accessible using load_config_yaml()
  │   └── data.yaml                   #   Accessible using load_data_yaml()
  ├── data                            # Local data (e.g. csv, png, pdf)
  │   └── example_data.csv
  ├── notebooks                       # Jupyter/R/Quarto notebooks
  │   ├── example_jupyternb.ipynb
  │   └── example_quarto.qmd
  ├── myproj                          # Python package of this project
  │   └── example.py                  #   Modules within myproj package
  ├── .gitignore                      # File list excluded from version control
  ├── README.md                       # Readme file describing the project
  ├── pyproject.toml                  # Project configuration
  └── uv.lock                         # Locked version of Python dependencies

and sets up the Python scripts in the *myproj* directory accessible as
``from myproj.example import add_one`` in any notebook or Python script that
uses this virtual environment and *bluprint*.

*conf/config.yaml* contains this placeholder:

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/bluprint/template/conf/config.yaml
  :language: yaml

and *data/example_data.csv* contains:

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/bluprint/template/data/example_data.csv

Access data from *conf/data.yaml* and general configuration from
*conf/config.yaml* files using:

.. code-block:: python

  from bluprint.config import load_data_yaml, load_config_yaml

  cfg = load_config_yaml()
  data = load_data_yaml()

  # Load `example_data.csv`:
  df = pd.read_csv(data.example_data)

  # Read configuration
  cfg.url   # "www.google.com"

By default, these functions load *conf/data.yaml* and *conf/config.yaml* so if
you have (additional) configuration in other files, specify them in the first
argument.

.. note::

  If you don't need to create various example files, you can create a project
  with:

  .. code-block::

    bluprint create myproject --omit-examples


Python/R projects
-----------------

Create a Bluprint project that supports both Jupyter and RMarkdown notebooks
with:

.. code-block:: bash

    bluprint create myproj -r

which also sets up renv and RStudio Rproj file and an example notebook:

.. code-block:: none

  myproj
  ├── .venv                           # Project's Python virtual environment
  ├── README.md
  ├── conf                            # yaml configuration files
  │   ├── config.yaml
  │   └── data.yaml
  ├── data                            # data such as csv, png, pdf
  │   └── example_data.csv
  ├── notebooks                       # Jupyter and RMarkdown notebooks
  │   ├── example_jupyternb.ipynb
  │   └── example_rmarkdown.Rmd
  ├── myproj                          # Python package of this project
  │   └── example.py
  ├── renv                            # Project's R environment
  ├── .gitignore                      # Files excluded from version control
  ├── myproj.Rproj                    # Rproj file for RStudio projects
  └── pyproject.toml                  # Python package configuration

Python notebooks and code still work the same as in the Python-only project. R
notebooks and code can load the configuration and data using {reticulate} and
{here} packages that will be installed to the project's renv environment:

.. code-block:: r

  library(reticulate)
  use_python(here::here('.venv/bin/python'))
  bluprint <- import('bluprint.config')

  # Load `example_data.csv`:
  df <- bluprint$load_data_yaml()

  cfg <- bluprint$load_config_yaml()
  cfg$url  # "www.google.com"


Bluprint project in an existing directory
-----------------------------------------

If you already have an existing directory with data and notebooks, you can
initialize bluprint project using:

.. code-block:: bash

  bluprint init myproj

Check `bluprint init -h` for additional arguments. For example, if you want to
skip generating the example files:

.. code-block:: bash

  bluprint init myproj --omit-examples

.. code-block:: none

  myproj
  ├── .venv
  ├── conf
  │   └── data.yaml
  ├── data
  ├── notebooks
  ├── myproj
  ├── .gitignore
  ├── pyproject.toml
  └── README.md

Commit message:

PD-73 allow hyphens (#23)
* add support for hyphens in project name
* refactor init code

docs/source/getting_started.rst, after:

Getting started
===============

Python projects
---------------

Create a project template in a new directory *myproj* using:

.. code-block:: bash

    bluprint create myproj


.. note::

  Since the bluprint project is implemented as a Python package, the simplest
  and cleanest way to name a project is to use all lowercase letters, digits and
  underscore(s), provided that the first symbol is a (lowercase) letter.

  However, you can specify a project name using a mix of uppercase and lowercase
  letters, underscores and hyphens. Again, provided that the name starts with a
  letter and ends either with a letter. The main project folder will be named
  exactly as input, however, internal folders will have all letters lowercased and
  hyphens converted to underscores.


This creates the following directory tree:

.. code-block:: none

  myproj
  ├── .venv                           # Project's Python virtual environment
  ├── conf                            # Yaml configuration files
  │   ├── config.yaml                 #   Accessible using load_config_yaml()
  │   └── data.yaml                   #   Accessible using load_data_yaml()
  ├── data                            # Local data (e.g. csv, png, pdf)
  │   └── example_data.csv
  ├── notebooks                       # Jupyter/R/Quarto notebooks
  │   ├── example_jupyternb.ipynb
  │   └── example_quarto.qmd
  ├── myproj                          # Python package of this project
  │   └── example.py                  #   Modules within myproj package
  ├── .gitignore                      # File list excluded from version control
  ├── README.md                       # Readme file describing the project
  ├── pyproject.toml                  # Project configuration
  └── uv.lock                         # Locked version of Python dependencies

and sets up the Python scripts in the *myproj* directory accessible as
``from myproj.example import add_one`` in any notebook or Python script that
uses this virtual environment and *bluprint*.

*conf/config.yaml* contains this placeholder:

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/bluprint/template/conf/config.yaml
  :language: yaml

and *data/example_data.csv* contains:

.. literalinclude:: ../../src/bluprint/template/data/example_data.csv

Access data from *conf/data.yaml* and general configuration from
*conf/config.yaml* files using:

.. code-block:: python

  from bluprint.config import load_data_yaml, load_config_yaml

  cfg = load_config_yaml()
  data = load_data_yaml()

  # Load `example_data.csv`:
  df = pd.read_csv(data.example_data)

  # Read configuration
  cfg.url   # "www.google.com"

By default, these functions load *conf/data.yaml* and *conf/config.yaml* so if
you have (additional) configuration in other files, specify them in the first
argument.

.. note::

  If you don't need to create various example files, you can create a project
  with:

  .. code-block::

    bluprint create myproject --omit-examples


Python/R projects
-----------------

Create a Bluprint project that supports both Jupyter and RMarkdown notebooks
with:

.. code-block:: bash

    bluprint create myproj -r

which also sets up renv and RStudio Rproj file and an example notebook:

.. code-block:: none

  myproj
  ├── .venv                           # Project's Python virtual environment
  ├── README.md
  ├── conf                            # yaml configuration files
  │   ├── config.yaml
  │   └── data.yaml
  ├── data                            # data such as csv, png, pdf
  │   └── example_data.csv
  ├── notebooks                       # Jupyter and RMarkdown notebooks
  │   ├── example_jupyternb.ipynb
  │   └── example_rmarkdown.Rmd
  ├── myproj                          # Python package of this project
  │   └── example.py
  ├── renv                            # Project's R environment
  ├── .gitignore                      # Files excluded from version control
  ├── myproj.Rproj                    # Rproj file for RStudio projects
  └── pyproject.toml                  # Python package configuration

Python notebooks and code still work the same as in the Python-only project. R
notebooks and code can load the configuration and data using {reticulate} and
{here} packages that will be installed to the project's renv environment:

.. code-block:: r

  library(reticulate)
  use_python(here::here('.venv/bin/python'))
  bluprint <- import('bluprint.config')

  # Load `example_data.csv`:
  df <- bluprint$load_data_yaml()

  cfg <- bluprint$load_config_yaml()
  cfg$url  # "www.google.com"


Bluprint project in an existing directory
-----------------------------------------

If you already have an existing directory with data and notebooks, you can
initialize bluprint project using:

.. code-block:: bash

  bluprint init myproj

Check `bluprint init -h` for additional arguments. For example, if you want to
skip generating the example files:

.. code-block:: bash

  bluprint init myproj --omit-examples

.. code-block:: none

  myproj
  ├── .venv
  ├── conf
  │   └── data.yaml
  ├── data
  ├── notebooks
  ├── myproj
  ├── .gitignore
  ├── pyproject.toml
  └── README.md
