docs/source/versions_python.rst, before:

Managing Python versions
========================

You can use `pyenv <https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation>`_ to manage
Python versions. Once it is installed, use ``pyenv versions`` to see which
Python versions are installed:

.. code-block:: bash

	pyenv versions
	# system
	# 3.9.8
	# 3.10.10
	# * 3.11.2 (set by /home/igor/repos/.python-version)
	# 3.12.0
	# 3.12.0a5
	# 3.13.0a2

Here's how to get Python versions available to download and install:

.. code-block:: bash

	pyenv install -l | grep '\s[0-9]'
	# ...
	# 3.11.2
	# 3.11.3
	# 3.11.4
	# 3.11.5
	# 3.11.6
	# 3.12.0
	# 3.12-dev
	# 3.13.0a2
	# 3.13-dev

Installing a new version, e.g. 3.13.0a2:

.. code-block:: bash

	pyenv install 3.13.0a2
	# Downloading Python-3.13.0a2.tar.xz...
	# -> https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.0/Python-3.13.0a2.tar.xz
	# Installing Python-3.13.0a2...
	# Installed Python-3.13.0a2 to /home/igor/.pyenv/versions/3.13.0a2


Once a different Python version is install you can use it

* globally using: ``pyenv global 3.13.0a2``

* locally (whenever you are in the current directory) using ``pyenv local 3.13.0a2``

.. note::

	pyenv works on Linux, MacOS and Windows Subsystem for Linux. For native Windows consider `pyenv-win <https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win>`_.

Commit message:

PD-71-switch-to-uv (#17)
* pdm -> uv

* getting rid of pdm in favor of uv

* update unit tests

* update unit tests

* update readme

* fix readme

* update docs

* switch references from pdm to uv

* reformat contributing guidelines

* format readme

* fix links

* update docs

* update docs

* update docs

* update docs

* fix readme

* unit test update

* cleanup docs and add quarto support

* add option to delete examples

* report coverage only with src

* start adding test case for bluprint create without examples

* add progress bar, refactor code for init

* rerun unit tests

* use only src dir from coverage report

* refactor and fix linting

* rerun unit tests

* rerun unit tests

* refactor project validators

* add more unit tests

* update docs

* update tests

* dont copy r / examples instead of copying + deleting

* change arg from keep_examples to omit_examples and fix it

* fix linting

* switch from skip_dot_files to include_dot_files argument for clarity

* update tests

* remove useless file

* update docs

* refactor to using path instead of os

* update unit tests

* cleanup CI/CD actions

* fix workflows

* fix CI/CD

* fix CI/CD

* switch to checkout@v4

* add badges to readme

* fix readme text and badges

* update readme

* update docs

* remove nbstripout dependency, cleanup docs

docs/source/versions_python.rst, after:

Managing Python versions
========================

If you need different Python versions, just for using with *Bluprint* and *uv*,
then you don't need to do anything. *uv* will automatically handle installing
necessary Python versions; see `uv - Installing Python <https://docs.astral.sh/uv/guides/install-python/>`_
for details.

Switching between Python versions
---------------------------------

You can use `pyenv <https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv#installation>`_ to manage
Python versions. Once it is installed, use ``pyenv versions`` to see which
Python versions are installed:

.. code-block:: bash

	pyenv versions
	# system
	# 3.9.8
	# 3.10.10
	# * 3.11.2 (set by /home/igor/repos/.python-version)
	# 3.12.0
	# 3.12.0a5
	# 3.13.0a2

Here's how to get Python versions available to download and install:

.. code-block:: bash

	pyenv install -l | grep '\s[0-9]'
	# ...
	# 3.11.2
	# 3.11.3
	# 3.11.4
	# 3.11.5
	# 3.11.6
	# 3.12.0
	# 3.12-dev
	# 3.13.0a2
	# 3.13-dev

Installing a new version, e.g. 3.13.0a2:

.. code-block:: bash

	pyenv install 3.13.0a2
	# Downloading Python-3.13.0a2.tar.xz...
	# -> https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.13.0/Python-3.13.0a2.tar.xz
	# Installing Python-3.13.0a2...
	# Installed Python-3.13.0a2 to /home/igor/.pyenv/versions/3.13.0a2


Once a different Python version is install you can use it

* globally using: ``pyenv global 3.13.0a2``

* locally (whenever you are in the current directory) using ``pyenv local 3.13.0a2``

.. note::

	pyenv works on Linux, MacOS and Windows Subsystem for Linux. For native Windows consider `pyenv-win <https://github.com/pyenv-win/pyenv-win>`_.
